# Assignment-Blood-donation-website

This site is about creating blood donation requests, fulfilling them by donating blood and searching for nearby hospitals/blood donation centers. It is a 3-man team project (I did the back end, @Baggeas the front and @JCholidis the database) written using Visual Studio Code (https://code.visualstudio.com/) and the free Internet hosting site's interface (Monsta FTP, https://www.monstaftp.com/). Code refining and debugging were performed by me and @Baggeas. The site's idea was conceived by @JCholidis.

To develop it, we applied some of the methods and working principles followed by real programming teams, which we were taught about in a different module, namely a Gantt chart, meeting minutes, risk/requirements/MoSCoW analyses, source/technical requirements lists, UML diagrams, a code conventions document, integration/system testing plans, a bug log, and deployment/maintenance and support plans among others.

The site used to be accessible by the Internet (including mobile phones, thanks to its responsive design) but, being hosted on a free server, it has since expired and can only be run locally, using XAMPP (https://www.apachefriends.org/download.html). To view it, you first have to create a database and populate it using the provided files. It is recommended to name the database "blood_donation", otherwise you'll have to manually add its name in the 3 different "dbConnect.php" source code files provided, next to the "dbname =" field. After that, copy all source files to XAMPP's "htdocs" folder and you should be able to visit the site from any browser by typing "localhost" in the address bar.

The "product" comes with an instruction manual which has not been uploaded and, seeing as we have not included a legend explaining the different request statuses in our website, I'm writing them here. When you create a request, you define the number of blood phials you need. When a donor accepts your/a request, he commits to donating a number of phials. A request is "active" for as long as the total number of phials has not been committed to be donated and becomes "fulfilled", when users/a user commits to donate all of them. When a user has finished donating blood, he presses a button and declares the fact. When all requested phials have been indeed donated, the request becomes "complete".

Respectively, in the user's "Accepted Requests" page, a request can be "accepted", "donated" (when he has donated blood and pressed the button), or "cancelled", if he changed his mind and cancelled his commitment.
